### CST356 Lab 1 - Rachel Soderberg
##### Exercise 1 
###### 1. Using Visual Studio, create the sample ASP.NET MVC Web application that uses C#. Leave "No Authentication" selected and "Add unit tests" unchecked.
###### 2. Start the application without debugging from Visual Studio.
###### 3.	Click on the "About" link in the navigation bar.  What code in the application just got executed?  Hint: Look at the address bar in the browser.
The code that was just executed resides in Views > Home > About.cshtml  
###### 4. Click on the "Application name" in the navigation bar to return to the home page.
###### 5. In the address bar of the browser, add /home/about to the end of the URL (after the port number) and hit enter. Explain the process the MVC framework takes to result in the page displayed. How does the MVC framework know what to display based upon the URL it receives?
The process to display the page localhost:59424/home/about starts with the controller, which holds the route data of Home (HomeController). After that, the home controller calls the action method About.  
  
##### Exercise 2  
###### 1. What part of the Home controller generates the "About" page?
The About page is generated by the IActionResult About() class in the Home Controller.  
###### 2. What data is being generated by the controller to be displayed in the page?
The controller is generating ViewData["Message"], sending a text message to the About page to be displayed.  
###### 3. Where is the view that the controller invokes to display the page?
The view invoked by the controller to display the page is located in Views (About.cshtml).  
###### 4. Describe the folder hierarchy convention that allows the MVC framework to find the correct view.
The correct view can be found by the MVC framework because of the default URL routing logic: /[Controller]/[ActionName]/[Parameters]. The Startup.cs file contains this routing logic.  
###### 5. Find the place in the view where the data generated by the controller is displayed. This is a simple example of the Razor syntax for adding C# logic to a view.
The data generated by the controller is displayed by ViewData["Message"] in the HomeController > About action.  
###### 6. Change the data generated by the controller, rebuild and restart the application. Redisplay the "About" page to see the new data displayed.
###### 7. Add another piece of data to be displayed in the "About" page. Redisplay the "About" page to see the new data.
  
##### Exercise 3  
###### 1. Create a new empty controller for the "Person" entity in your application with an "Index" method for displaying information for a person. Right click on the "Controllers" folder, select "Add" and then "Controller."
###### 2. Start the application in Visual Studio.
###### 3. Go to the address bar and enter Person after the port number in the URL. Hit enter. What do you see? Why?
When attempting to go to the Person view, there is an error "InvalidOperationException: The view 'Index' was not found." This happened because we established the Controller but have not yet linked the Index to a Person View.  
###### 4. Create a view for displaying a person. Right click on the "Person" controller under "Views", select "Add" and then "View." Keep all of the default settings in the displayed dialog.
###### 5. Repeat steps 2 and 3. What do you see now?
Now that the View has been added, there is an otherwise blank page with simply "Index" as the header.  
###### 6. Add "person" data to the ViewBag in your new controller.
###### 7. Add the display of the new "person" data to the view that you created.
###### 8. Repeat steps 2 and 3. What do you see now?
Now, after adding ViewBag data (I opted for text) to the controller and displaying it in the view, I now see my message below the Index header.  
  
##### Exercise 4  
###### 1. Add a "Person" model to your project. Right click on "Models", select "Add" and then "Class."
###### 2. Add data to the "Person" model that you think is relevant to your application.
